# ErieCanal

ErieCanal is a Kubernetes Multi-Cluster Service API (MCS) implementation, and provides MCS, Ingress, Egress, and Gateway API for Kubernetes clusters.

ErieCanal is an implementation of [Kubernetes Multi-Cluster Service API (MCS)](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/mcs-api) that depends on a service mesh and Ingress to provide service registration and discovery capabilities across k8s clusters. When using ErieCanal as an MCS provider, it must be used in conjunction with [osm-edge](https://github.com/flomesh-io/osm-edge), which provides east-west traffic flow capabilities, while ErieCanal provides north-south traffic flow capabilities. ErieCanal also provides the ability to register and discover services across clusters. In the MCS multi-cluster mode, ErieCanal currently supports three traffic modes for Kubernetes clusters that join the ClusterSet: `Locality`, `Failover`, and `ActiveActive`. 

In the `Locality` mode, which is the default configuration, traffic is scheduled based on proximity within the local cluster or can be scheduled to a specific cluster based on topology.In the `ActiveActive` mode, the cluster provides the same traffic processing capabilities as service export (`ServiceExport`) using load balancing. In the `Failover` mode, the importing service (ServiceImport) cluster provides disaster recovery capabilities for the exporting service (ServiceExport) cluster. ErieCanal's implementation does not require the underlying Kubernetes to use a special network and does not require a unified two-layer or three-layer network between the multi-cluster networks. Therefore, it is generally applicable to Kubernetes clusters of various types of networks.